In a previous video, you saw
the basic blocks of implementing
a deep neural network,
a forward propagation step for
each layer and a corresponding
backward propagation step.
Let's see how you can actually
implement these steps.
We'll start with
forward propagation.
Recall that what this will
do is input a^l minus 1,
and outputs a^l and
the cache, z^l.
We just said that, from
implementational point of view,
maybe we'll cache
w^l and b^l as well,
just to make the
function's call a
bit easier in the
program exercise.
The equations for this should
already look familiar.
The way to implement a forward
function is just this,
equals w^l times a^l
minus 1 plus b^l,
and then a^l equals the
activation function applied to z.
If you want a vectorized
implementation,
then it's just that times
a^l minus 1 plus b,
b being a Python broadcasting,
and a^l equals g,
applied element-wise to z.
You remember, on the
diagram for the 4th step,
remember we had this chain
of boxes going forward,
so you initialize
that with feeding
in a^0, which is equal to x.
So you initialize this with,
what is the input
to the first one?
It's really a^0,
which is the input
features either for
one training example
if you're doing one
example at a time,
or a^0 if you're processing
the entire training set.
That's the input to
the first forward
function in the chain,
and then just repeating
this allows you to compute
forward propagation
from left to right.
Next, let's talk about the
backward propagation step.
Here, your goal
is to input da^l,
and output da^l minus
1 and dw^l and db^l.
Let me just write out
the steps you need to
compute these things.
Dz^l is equal to da^l
element-wise product,
with g of l prime z of
l. Then to compute
the derivatives,
dw^l equals dz^l
times a of l minus 1.
I didn't explicitly
put that in the cache,
but it turns out you
need this as well.
Then db^l is equal to
dz^l, and finally,
da of l minus 1 is equal to
w^l transpose times dz^l.
I don't want to go through
the detailed
derivation for this,
but it turns out that if
you take this definition
for da and plug it in here,
then you get the same formula
as we had in there previously,
for how you compute
dz^l as a function of
the previous dz^l.
In fact, well, if I
just plug that in here,
you end up that dz^l is equal
to w^l plus 1 transpose dz^l
plus 1 times g^l prime z
of l. I know this looks
like a lot of algebra.
You could actually
double-check for
yourself that this
is the equation
we had written down for
back propagation last week,
when we were doing
a neural network
with just a single hidden layer.
As a reminder, this times
is element-wise product,
so all you need is
those four equations to implement
your backward function.
Then finally, I'll just write
out a vectorized version.
So the first line becomes dz^l
equals da^l element-wise
product with g^l prime of z^l,
maybe no surprise there.
Dw^l becomes 1 over m,
dz^l times a^l
minus 1 transpose.
Then db^l becomes 1
over m np.sum dz^l.
Then axis equals 1,
keepdims equals true.
We talked about the use of
np.sum in the previous
week, to compute db.
Then finally, da^l minus
1 is w^l transpose times
dz of l. This
allows you to input this
quantity, da, over here.
Output dW^l, dp^l, the
derivatives you need,
as well as da^l
minus 1 as follows.
That's how you implement
the backward function.
Just to summarize,
take the input x,
you may have the
first layer maybe
has a ReLU activation function.
Then go to the second layer,
maybe uses another ReLU
activation function,
goes to the third
layer maybe has
a sigmoid activation function
if you're doing binary
classification,
and this outputs y-hat.
Then using y-hat, you
can compute the loss.
This allows you to start
your backward iteration.
I'll draw the arrows first.
I guess I don't have to
change pens too much.
Where you will then
have backprop compute
the derivatives,
compute dW^3,
db^3, dW^2, db^2, dW^1, db^1.
Along the way you would be
computing against the cash.
We'll transfer z^1, z^2, z^3.
Here you pass backwards
da^2 and da^1.
This could compute da^0,
but we won't use that so
you can just discard that.
This is how you implement
forward prop and back prop for
a three-layer neural network.
There's this one last
detail that I didn't talk
about which is for the
forward recursion,
we will initialize it
with the input data x.
How about the
backward recursion?
Well it turns out that
da of l when you're using
logistic regression,
when you're doing
binary classification
is equal to y over
a plus 1 minus y over 1 minus a.
It turns out that the derivative
of the loss function respect to
the output with respect to
y-hat can be shown
to be what it is.
If you're familiar
with calculus,
if you look up the
loss function l and
take derivatives with respect
to y-hat with respect to a,
you can show that you
get that formula.
This is the formula
you should use for da,
for the final layer,
capital L. Of course if you
were to have a vectorized
implementation,
then you initialize
the backward recursion,
not with this,
but with da capital A for
the layer L which is going to be
the same thing for the
different examples.
Over a for the first train
example plus 1 minus
y for the first
train example over
1 minus A for the
first train example,
dot-dot-dot down to
the nth train example.
So 1 minus a of M. That's how
you'd implement the
vectorized version.
That's how you initialize
the vectorized version
of back propagation.
We've now seen the basic
building blocks of
both forward propagation as
well as back propagation.
Now if you implement
these equations,
you will get the correct
implementation of
forward prop and backprop to
get you the
derivatives you need.
You might be thinking, well
those are a lot of equations.
I'm slightly confused.
I'm not quite sure I see
how this works and if
you're feeling that way,
my advice is when you
get to this week's
programming assignment,
you will be able to
implement these for
yourself and they will
be much more concrete.
I know those are a
lot of equations,
and maybe some of the equations
didn't make complete sense,
but if you work through
the calculus and the linear
algebra which is not easy,
so feel free to try,
but that's actually
one of the more
difficult derivations
in machine learning.
It turns out the equations
we wrote down are
just the calculus equations
for computing the derivatives,
especially in backprop,
but once again,
if this feels a
little bit abstract,
a little bit mysterious to you,
my advice is when you've done
the programming exercise,
it will feel a bit
more concrete to you.
Although I have to say, even
today when I implement
a learning algorithm,
sometimes even I'm
surprised when
my learning algorithm
implementation
works and it's because
a lot of the complexity of
machine learning comes from
the data rather than
from the lines of codes.
Sometimes you feel like
you implement a
few lines of code,
not quite sure what it did,
but it almost magically works,
and it's because a lot of
magic is actually not in
the piece of code you write
which is often not too long.
It's not exactly simple,
but it's not 10,000,
100,000 lines of code,
but you feed it
so much data that
sometimes even though I've
worked with machine
learning for a long time,
sometimes it still surprises
me a bit when my learning
algorithm works,
because a lot of
the complexity of
your learning algorithm
comes from the data
rather than necessarily from you
writing thousands and
thousands of lines of code.
That's how you implement
deep neural networks.
Again this will become more
concrete when you've done
the programming exercising.
Before moving on,
in the next video,
I want to discuss
hyper-parameters and parameters.
It turns out that when
you're training deep nets,
being able to organize
your hyper-parameters well
will help you be more efficient
in developing your networks.
In the next video, let's talk
about exactly what that means.